But Mother had only laughed and said no, Arya was her daughter and Sansa's  trueborn sister, blood of their blood.
Sansa could not think why Mother would want to lie about it, so she  supposed it had to be true.
 As she neared the center of camp, her distress was quickly forgotten.
A crowd had gathered around the  queen's wheelhouse.
Sansa heard excited voices buzzing like a hive of bees.
The doors had been thrown  open, she saw, and the queen stood at the top of the wooden steps, smiling down at someone.
She heard  her saying, "The council does us great honor, my good lords."
 "What's happening?"
she asked a squire she knew.
 "The council sent riders from King's Landing to escort us the rest of the way," he told her.
"An honor  guard for the king."
4 Anxious to see, Sansa let Lady clear a path through the crowd.
People moved aside hastily for the  direwolf.
When she got closer, she saw two knights kneeling before the queen, in armor so fine and  gorgeous that it made her blink.
 One knight wore an intricate suit of white enameled scales, brilliant as a field of new-fallen snow, with  silver chasings and clasps that glittered in the sun.
When he removed his helm, Sansa saw that he was an  old man with hair as pale as his armor, yet he seemed strong and  graceful for all that.
From his shoulders hung the pure white cloak of the Kingsguard.
 His companion was a man near twenty whose armor was steel plate of a deep forest-green.
He was the  handsomest man Sansa had ever set eyes upon; tall and powerfully made, with jet-black hair that fell to  his shoulders and framed a clean-shaven face, and laughing green eyes to match his armor.
Cradled  under one arm was an antlered helm, its magnificent rack shimmering in gold.
 At first Sansa did not notice the third stranger.
He did not kneel with the others.
He stood to one side,  beside their horses, a gaunt grim man who watched the proceedings in silence.
His face was pockmarked  and beardless, with deepset eyes and hollow cheeks.
Though he was not an old man, only a few wisps of  hair remained to him, sprouting above his ears, but those he had grown long as a woman's.
His armor  was iron-grey chainmail over layers of boiled leather, plain and unadorned, and it spoke of age and hard  use.
Above his right shoulder the stained leather hilt of the blade strapped to his back was visible; a  two-handed greatsword, too long to be worn at his side.
 "The king is gone hunting, but I know he will be pleased to see you when he returns," the queen was  saying to the two knights who knelt before her, but Sansa could not take her eyes off the third man.
He  seemed to feel the weight of her gaze.
Slowly he turned his head.
Lady growled.
A terror as  overwhelming as anything Sansa Stark had ever felt filled her suddenly.
She stepped backward and  bumped into someone.
 Strong hands grasped her by the shoulders, and for a moment Sansa thought it was her father, but when  she turned, it was the burned face of Sandor Clegane looking down at her, his mouth twisted in a terrible  mockery of a smile.
"You are shaking, girl," he said, his voice rasping.
"Do I frighten you so much?"
 He did, and had since she had first laid eyes on the ruin that fire had made of his face, though it seemed  to her now that he was not half so terrifying as the other.
Still, Sansa wrenched away from him, and the  Hound laughed, and Lady moved between them, rumbling a warning.
Sansa dropped to her knees to  wrap her arms around the wolf.
They were all gathered around gaping, she could feel their eyes on her,  and here and there she heard muttered comments and titters of laughter.
 "A wolf," a man said, and someone else said, "Seven hells, that's a direwolf," and the first man said,  "What's it doing in camp?" and the Hound's rasping voice replied, "The Starks use them for wet nurses,"  and Sansa realized that the two stranger knights were looking down on  her and Lady, swords in their hands, and then she was frightened again, and ashamed.
Tears filled her  eyes.
5
She heard the queen say, "Joffrey, go to her."
 And her prince was there.
 "Leave her alone," Joffrey said.
He stood over her, beautiful in blue wool and black leather, his golden  curls shining in the sun like a crown.
He gave her his hand, drew her to her feet.
"What is it, sweet lady?
 Why are you afraid?
No one will hurt you.
Put away your swords, all of you.
The wolf is her little pet,  that's all."
He looked at Sandor Clegane.
"And you, dog, away with you, you're scaring my betrothed."
 The Hound, ever faithful, bowed and slid away quietly through the press.
Sansa struggled to steady  herself.
She felt like such a fool.
She was a Stark of Winterfell, a noble lady, and someday she would be  a queen.
"It was not him, my sweet prince," she tried to explain.
"It was the other one."
 The two stranger knights exchanged a look.
"Payne?" chuckled the young man in the green armor.
 The older man in white spoke to Sansa gently.
"Ofttimes Ser Ilyn frightens me as well, sweet lady.
He  has a fearsome aspect."
 "As well he should."
The queen had descended from the wheelhouse.
The spectators parted to make  way for her.
"If the wicked do not fear the Mng's Justice, you have put the wrong man in the office."
 Sansa finally found her words.
"Then surely you have chosen the right one, Your Grace," she said, and a  gale of laughter erupted all around her.
 "Well spoken, child," said the old man in white.
"As befits the daughter of Eddard Stark.
I am honored  to know you, however irregular the manner of our meeting.
I am Ser Barristan Selmy, of the  Kingsguard."
He bowed.
 Sansa knew the name, and now the courtesies that Septa Mordane had taught her over the years came  back to her.
"The Lord Commander of the Kingsguard," she said, "and councillor to Robert our king and  to Aerys Targaryen before him.
The honor is mine, good knight.
Even in the far north, the singers praise  the deeds of Barristan the Bold."
 The green knight laughed again.
"Barristan the Old, you mean.
Don't flatter him too sweetly, child, he  thinks overmuch of himself already."
He smiled at her.
"Now, wolf girl, if you can put a name to me as  well, then I must concede that you are truly our Hand's daughter."
 Joffrey stiffened beside her.
"Have a care how you address my betrothed."
 can answer," Sansa said quickly, to quell her prince's anger.
She smiled at the green knight.
"Your  helmet bears golden antlers, my lord.
The stag is the sigil of the royal House.
King Robert has two  brothers.
By your extreme youth, you can only be Renly Baratheon, Lord of Storm's End and councillor  to the king, and so I name you."
 Ser Barristan chuckled.
"By his extreme youth, he can only be a prancing jackanapes, and so I name  him."
 There was general laughter, led by Lord Renly himself.
The tension of a few moments ago was gone,  and Sansa was beginning to feel comfortable . . .
until Ser Ilyn Payne shouldered two men aside, and 6 stood before her, unsmiling.
He did not say a word.
Lady bared her teeth and began to growl, a low  rumble full of menace, but this time Sansa silenced the wolf with a gentle hand to the head.
"I am sorry if I  offended you, Ser Ilyn," she said.
 She waited for an answer, but none came.
As the headsman looked at her, his pale colorless eyes  seemed to strip the clothes away from her, and then the skin, leaving her soul naked before him.
Still  silent, he turned and walked away.
 Sansa did not understand.
She looked at her prince.
"Did I say something wrong, Your Grace?
Why will  he not speak to me?"  "Ser Ilyn has not been feeling talkative these past fourteen years," Lord Renly commented with a sly  smile.
 Joffrey gave his uncle a look of pure loathing, then took Sansa's hands in his own.
"Aerys Targaryen had  his tongue ripped out with hot pincers."
 "He speaks most eloquently with his sword, however," the queen said, "and his devotion to our realm is  unquestioned."
Then she smiled graciously and said, "Sansa, the good councillors and I must speak  together until the king returns with your father.
I fear we shall have to postpone your day with Myrcella.
 Please give your sweet sister my apologies.
Joffrey, perhaps you would be so kind as to entertain our  guest today."
 "It would be my pleasure, Mother," Joffrey said very formally.
He took her by the arm and led her away  from the wheelhouse, and Sansa's spirits took flight.
A whole day with her prince!
She gazed at Joffrey  worshipfully.
He was so gallant, she thought.
The way he had rescued her from Ser Ilyn and the Hound,  why, it was almost like the songs, like the time Serwyn of the Mirror Shield saved the Princess Daeryssa  from the giants, or Prince Aemon the Dragonknight championing Queen Naerys's honor against evil Ser  Morgil's slanders.
 The touch of Joffrey's hand on her sleeve made her heart beat faster.
"What would you like to do?"  Be with you, Sansa thought, but she said, "Whatever you'd like to do, my prince."
 Jofftey reflected a moment.
"We could go riding."
 "Oh, I love riding," Sansa said.
 Joffrey glanced back at Lady, who was following at their heels.
"Your wolf is liable to frighten the  horses, and my dog seems to frighten you.
Let us leave them both behind and set off on our own, what  do you say?"  Sansa hesitated.
"If you like," she said uncertainly.
"I suppose I could tie Lady up."
She did not quite  understand, though.
"I didn't know you had a dog . . ."
 Joffrey laughed.
"He's my mother's dog, in truth.
She has set him to guard me, and so he does."
 "You mean the Hound," she said.
She wanted to hit herself for being so slow.
Her prince would never  love her if she seemed stupid.
"Is it safe to leave him behind?" 7 Prince Joffrey looked annoyed that she would even ask.
"Have no fear, lady.
I am almost a man grown,  and I don't fight with wood like your brothers.
All I need is this."
He drew his sword and showed it to  her; a longsword adroitly shrunken to suit a boy of twelve, gleaming blue steel, castle-forged and  double-edged, with a leather grip and a lion's-head pommel in gold.
Sansa exclaimed over it admiringly,  and Joffrey looked pleased.
"I call it Lion's Tooth," he said.
 And so they left her direwolf and his bodyguard behind them, while they ranged east along the north  bank of the Trident with no company save Lion's Tooth.
 It was a glorious day, a magical day.
The air was warm and heavy with the scent of flowers, and the  woods here had a gentle beauty that Sansa had never seen in the north.
Prince Joffrey's mount was a  blood bay courser, swift as the wind, and he rode it with reckless abandon, so fast that Sansa was  hard-pressed to keep up on her mare.
It was a day for adventures.
They explored the caves by the  riverbank, and tracked a shadowcat to its lair, and when they grew hungry, Joffrey found a holdfast by its  smoke and told them to fetch food and wine for their prince and his lady.
They dined on trout fresh from  the river, and Sansa drank more wine than she had ever drunk before.
"My father only lets us have one  cup, and only at feasts," she confessed to her prince.
 "My betrothed can drink as much as she wants," Joffrey said, refilling her cup.
 They went more slowly after they had eaten.
Joffrey sang for her as  they rode, his voice high and sweet and pure.
Sansa was a little dizzy from the wine.
"Shouldn't we be  starting back?" she asked.
 "Soon," Joffrey said.
"The battleground is right up ahead, where the river bends.
That was where my  father killed Rhaegar Targaryen, you know.
He smashed in his chest, crunch, right through the armor."
 Joffrey swung an imaginary warhammer to show her how it was done.
"Then my uncle Jaime killed old  Aerys, and my father was king.
What's that sound?"  Sansa heard it too, floating through the woods, a kind of wooden clattering, snack snack snack.
"I don't  know," she said.
It made her nervous, though.
"Joffrey, let's go back."
 "I want to see what it is."
Joffrey turned his horse in the direction of the sounds, and Sansa had no choice  but to follow.
The noises grew louder and more distinct, the clack of wood on wood, and as they grew  closer they heard heavy breathing as well, and now and then a grunt.
 "Someone's there," Sansa said anxiously.
She found herself thinking of Lady, wishing the direwolf was  with her.
 "You're safe with me."
Joffrey drew his Lion's Tooth from its sheath.
The sound of steel on leather made  her tremble.
"This way," he said, riding through a stand of trees.
 Beyond, in a clearing overlooking the river, they came upon a boy and a girl playing at knights.
Their  swords were wooden sticks, broom handles from the look of them, and they were rushing across the  grass, swinging at each other lustily.
The boy was years older, a head taller, and much stronger, and he  was pressing the attack.
The girl, a scrawny thing in soiled leathers, was dodging and managing to get her  stick in the way of most of the boy's blows, but not all.
When she tried to lunge at him, he caught her 8 stick with his own, swept it aside, and slid his wood down hard on her fingers.
She cried out and lost her  weapon.
 Prince Joffrey laughed.
The boy looked around, wide-eyed and startled, and dropped his stick in the  grass.
The girl glared at them, sucking on her knuckles to take the sting out, and Sansa was horrified.
 'Arya?" she called out incredulously.
 "Go away," Arya shouted back at them, angry tears in her eyes.
"What are you doing here?
Leave us  alone."
 Joffrey glanced from Arya to Sansa and back again.
"Your sister?"
She nodded, blushing.
Joffrey  examined the boy, an ungainly lad with a coarse, freckled face and thick red hair.
"And who are you,  boy?" he asked in a commanding tone that took no notice of the fact that the other was a year his senior.
 "Mycah," the boy muttered.
He recognized the prince and averted his eyes.
"M'Iord."  "He's the butcher's boy," Sansa said.
 "He's my friend," Arya said sharply.
"You leave him alone."
 "A butcher's boy who wants to be a knight, is it?"
Joffrey swung down from his mount, sword in hand.
 "Pick up your sword, butcher's boy," he said, his eyes bright with amusement.
"Let us see how good you  are."
 Mycah stood there, frozen with fear.
 Joffrey walked toward him.
"Go on, pick it up.
Or do you only fight little girls?"
 "She ast me to, m'lord," Mycah said.
"She ast me to."
 Sansa had only to glance at Arya and see the flush on her sister's face to know the boy was telling the  truth, but Joffrey was in no mood to listen.
The wine had made him wild.
"Are you going to pick up your  sword?"  Mycah shook his head.
"It's only a stick, m'lord.
It's not no sword, it's only a stick."
 "And you're only a butcher's boy, and no knight."
Joffrey lifted Lion's Tooth and laid its point on  Mycah's cheek below the eye, as the butcher's boy stood trembling.
"That was my lady's sister you were  hitting, do you know that?"
A bright bud of blood blossomed where his sword pressed into Mycah's  flesh, and a slow red line trickled down the boy's cheek.
 "Stop it!"
Arya screamed.
She grabbed up her fallen stick.
 Sansa was afraid.
"Arya, you stay out of this."
 "I won't hurt him . . .
much," Prince Joffrey told Arya, never taking his eyes off the butcher's boy.
 Arya went for him.
9 Sansa slid off her mare, but she was too slow.
Arya swung with both hands.
There was a loud crack as  the wood split against the back of the prince's head, and then everything happened at once before  Sansa's horrified eyes.
Joffrey staggered and whirled around, roaring curses.
Mycah ran for the trees as  fast as his legs would take him.
Arya swung at the prince again, but this time Joffrey caught the blow on  Lion's Tooth and sent her broken stick flying from her hands.
The back of his head was all bloody and  his eyes were on fire.
Sansa was shrieking, "No, no, stop it, stop it, both of you, you're spoiling it," but no  one was listening.
Arya scooped up a rock and hurled it at Joffrey's head.
She hit his horse instead, and  the blood bay reared and went galloping off after Mycah.
"Stop it, don't, stop it!"
Sansa screamed.
 Joffrey slashed at Arya with his sword, screaming obscenities, terrible words, filthy words.
Arya darted  back, frightened now, but Joffrey followed, hounding  her toward the woods, backing her up against a tree.
Sansa didn't know what to do.
She watched  helplessly, almost blind from her tears.
 Then a grey blur flashed past her, and suddenly Nymeria was there, leaping, jaws closing around  Jofftey's sword arm.